
* The silos of Compute, Networkd and Storage are virtualized
* VMware's approach: Abstract resources -> pool resources and build features like HA -> automate management (on-demand access, automated operations)

[[https://github.com/cskrushika/javawb/blob/master/docs/_static/vsan-3-sddc.jpeg|alt=VMware's Software Defined Data Center]]

##### Introdution to Convergence
Convergence is the combination of two, previously silo'ed datacenter infrastructure services
 * Compute and storage convergence
 * Network and storage convergence
 
 **Benefits**
 * Greater efficiency - resource wastage limited
 * Greater performance - live migration of VM, HA, 
 * All-new performance - read/write caching, deduplication etc
 
 **Terms**
 * Hyperconvergence
 * ServerSAN
 * Hypervisor-converged storage
 * Software defined X (Storage)
 
 ##### Why do you need SDS (Software defined storage)
 SDS is the intelligent software that makes Hyperconvergence possible.
 
 **Today's storage is:**
 * Difficult to align with applications
 * Provides unreliable performance - IO typicall goes to controller->LUN and then to storage leading to bottlenecks
 * Lacks end-to-end visibility - storage knows nil about applications running
 * Provisioning is too slow and is manual
 * Managed separately, in its own silo
 * Requires specialized hardware - and specific types of operational skills

#######Comparing SDS Options
** Virtual Storage Appliance - **Virtualized storage running inside a VM
  * Lefthand/HP
  * VMware VSA
  * Openfiler in a VM
  * Virtual EMC arrays, for testing
They do provide some level of SDS and better level of efficiency

** Hypervisor converged**  
  * VMware vSAN

** Hyperconvergance solutions(compute and storage)**
  * Nutanix, Simplivity and Pivot3
  * Maxta
  * Scale Computing HC3 for KVM Hypervisor
  
#######Hardware vs Software based storage
* Hardware based are scale-up storage -> purchase SAN -> add more disks and controllers to scale. 
* They are multipurpose - virtual infrastructures, physical servers, NAS head in front of SAN as file servers.
* Costly and complex.

* Software-based storage are scale-out - add more physical servers easily, similar to lego blocks
* Its mostly for single purposes - like virtualization. But applications in VM can run anything.
* Easy and quick to deploy, flexible, cheaper and easy to manage.

#######VMware's view of SDS
* Keep traditional NAS or SAN
* Add SSD to existing hosts
* VM-centric snapshots, clones, replications etc
* VM-centric policies for placement, protection and performance
* Bringing the efficient operational model of virtualization to storage
[[https://github.com/cskrushika/javawb/blob/master/docs/_static/vsan-3-sds.jpeg|alt=VMware's view of SDS]]

######Additional info on SPBM and SDS
* Storage Policy Based Management **(SPBM) is the foundation of the SDS Control Plane** and enables vSphere administrators to over come **upfront storage provisioning challenges, such as capacity planning, differentiated service levels and managing capacity headroom**.
* Storage Policy Based Management (SPBM) is a storage policy framework that provides **a single unified control plane across a broad range of data services and storage solutions.** The framework helps to align storage with application demands of your virtual machines. First Class Disk (FCD) is a named virtual disk unassociated with a VM. 
* Through defining standard storage Profiles, SPBM optimizes the virtual machine provisioning process by provisioning datastores at scale and eliminating the need to provision virtual machines on a case-by-case basis. 
* PowerCLI, VMware vRealize Suite, vSphere API, Open Stack and other **applications can leverage the vSphere Storage Policy Based Management API to automate storage management operations for the Software-Defined Storage infrastructure**.
	
#######Three types of automation.
* **Script** – programs written for a special runtime environment that can interpret and automate the execution of tasks which could alternatively be executed one-by-one by a human operator. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Script_(computing))
* **Orchestration** – describes the automated arrangement, coordination, and management of complex computer systems, middleware, and services. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orchestration_(computing)). **Example: VPS**
* **Policy** – Policy-based management is an administrative approach that is used to simplify the management of a given endeavor by establishing policies to deal with situations that are likely to occur. (http://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/policy-based-management)
at

  
 